---
isBasedOnUrl: 'content://x-text:1114ac75-caa6-4280-af09-1a2ecafd557b'
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
name: on-go
layout: post
title: On the go
time: '2007-05-12T09:20:00.000Z'
categories:
  - earlypenguin
author: []
datePublished: '2015-09-03T11:03:17.256Z'
dateModified: '2015-09-03T10:52:22.369Z'
sourcePath: _posts/2015-09-03-on-the-go.md
published: true
tags:
  - ''
authors: []
publisher:
  name: x-text
  domain: x-text
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: on-the-go/index.html
_type: Article
_context: 'http://schema.org'

---
# On the go

I have recently been introduced to a bunch of software for mobile
platforms. The reason is simply that I upgraded both my personal and
work phones to S60r3 generation (E50 and E70 if you insist). I also
got an N800 for test use but all y'all must know what it can do by
now. Most of the software is not open. All of them can be used free
of charge to some extent. I believe there are some Nokia licence
issues that prevent some of these from being opened. That was just a
hunch, maybe I shouldn't have said it at all.

The reason I am bringing these pieces of software up is simply the
reason that I am enjoying my wireless freedom even better now that I
found these thingies. I still don't feel like coding on the road but
I am hoping for the best.

## PuTTY

As those of you who know me may know, I am on IRC all the time. I am
also doing various other things with SSH all the time. Hence PuTTY
for S60 is a must have. It is Open Source. The keypad bindings hardly
fit my needs. Using irssi is a bit awkward without the modified
bindings I had on my S60r2 phone (6630 if you keep insisting).

## [BusWatch][0]

This is a great piece of software for a person who lives in 
Helsinki or Tampere. It is made for browsing time tables. I can save 
my most used bus stops and have the software alarm me when I should 
run for my bus. The best thing is that the software even knows the 
Finnish holidays with exceptional time tables.

## [Jaiku][1]

This one is a presence service. It is completely useless but
something fun you can do with your friends. In the r2 version there
are some features stemming from Meaning which is a software for
uploading pictures to Flickr with metadata gathered from GPS,
Bluetooth neighborhood, GSM cell and calendar. Most of the features
still exist in the S60r2 version and I miss having them. Someone
mentioned that it might even be impossible to implement the same
functionality in revision 3\. Jaiku is also a good way of exposing
your location to the Big Brother.

## [smart2go][2]

A friend recommended I should download this one. Smart2go is a free 
mapping solution for S60r3 phones. It seems to be pretty handy for 
finding a way from point A to point B. It would work better with a 
GPS device if I had one though. The simulation of me coming from the 
office to my doorstep seemed to be exactly what I wanted. I am not 
sure how the really expensive navigation tool would affect the 
experience. It is also possible to download city guides for about 
eight euros. They might come in handy when visiting a new place, like 
Seoul in August. There actually isn't a guide for Seoul at this 
point.

## [AutoLock][3]

Don't you hate pocket calls? I do. Installing this tool makes them
less frequent.

[0]: http://koti.mbnet.fi/BusWatch/
[1]: http://www.jaiku.com/
[2]: http://www.smart2go.com/
[3]: http://fuse.stc.cx/autolock/