---
isBasedOnUrl: 'content://x-text:ba1bc146-d200-4406-8c70-e2d1c7cba42c'
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
name: short-report
layout: post
title: A short report
time: '2007-09-26T15:37:00.000Z'
categories:
  - earlypenguin
author: []
datePublished: '2015-09-03T11:03:15.730Z'
dateModified: '2015-09-03T10:49:51.060Z'
sourcePath: _posts/2015-09-03-a-short-report.md
published: true
tags:
  - ''
authors: []
publisher:
  name: x-text
  domain: x-text
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: a-short-report/index.html
_type: Article
_context: 'http://schema.org'

---
# A short report

I have been carried away from my hobbies and everything else because 
of the work that also happens to be my hobby. There is a lot going on 
now that I am studying, doing some extra work and a new semester 
started at my school. I have come acquainted with things such as 
facebook, testing tools, boot loaders, kernel drivers, social 
networks, virtualization, firewalls, compilers, a puppy, stress, low 
carb diet, hardware like I never knew it before and window managers. 
I didn't name everything and not all of them are brand new to me but 
there seem to be a lot of new things around me right now.

Today I played around with Compiz. All of that was because of my 
bright idea of updating my Xorg when I was updating Java from Gutsy 
Goatse (or what ever the distribution is called). The reason for 
installing Java was the fact that I am taking part in a seminar that 
heavily suggest I install this software named Condor on my laptop to 
analyze my social network. The software started fine but the main 
window remained blank. Installing from Gutsy helped a lot. In the 
morning, nothing seemed to work on my updated X and I made a full 
upgrade to Gutsy (quite counter-intuitive, right?) After that I had 
huge problems with Compiz changing two workspaces with one press. It 
turned out that wall and cube plug-ins do not mix. I am not quite 
sure how I managed to mess things up. At least the Gnome tool and 
Ubuntu's desktop-effects collided and things went wrong big time. 
While on a lecture about social networks I fixed it. I think 
gconf-editor is the best tool for Compiz configuration.

I am attending a seminar on COINs, distributed software development
and whatever goes along with them. We have a chap named Peter Gloor
from MIT talking to us about analyzing these creatures. He has
covered a clutch cable in Ghana and drug abuse in his side tracks,
which may implicate him finding the phenomena in his every-day life
or just avoiding the subject. Sociology plays a big part in this
branch of science along with graphs, matrices and other exact
science. The softer stuff makes the subject a bit easier to approach,
I think. I don't feel like mathematical proofs right now.

The rest of my day, among social things, consists of kernel drivers
and boot loaders. I have been ripped from the high-level abstractions
to the really low level of programming. It feels good for a change to 
implement something that no one has actually done before.
Conceptually the things preexist but this time the undisclosable 
things might even end upstream with slim to none changes. Working in 
a company circling around Open Source I have been able to do that 
rarely. Also the mindset required for the programming is completely 
different when working on a lower level. Even the system resources 
are restricted for a change. I have worked before with BUENOS which 
is an educational system for learning operating systems but the real 
deal feels different. Also the specifications of an academically used 
software are from another planet compared to the things coming from 
chip manufacturers. I thought it would be easier to sell something if 
the specifications were any good and easily available.

Having these projects it has still been possible to do some 
gardening as well. I got two IBM Xseries 340 3U servers. The other 
one is going to be the new server for this site and a few others. The 
other is going to do Something until the more important one starts 
rotting and needs spare parts. I am almost considering a S-ATA 
controller and a 160GB mirror instead of the current 18GB SCSI 
blades. It is the first time I have the privilege of owning a real 
RAID controller but I consider 36GB a trade-off. The system is not 
quite configured yet. It seems to filter traffic from and to the 
virtual servers that I have configured and debugging is a luxury I 
can't afford in personal projects at the moment. The firewall is 
nearly a copy of my home server. The biggest difference is that I 
bridge the connections instead of messing things up with a NAT.

Configuring the home server is the latest successful fruit of 
my recent gardening. I configured the system in one weekend and it 
runs almost everything the previous system used to. I still have to 
create a virtual server for most of the old functionality though. 
There's no hurry as it's been a while since I booted my desktop (the 
RAID has some problems due to stability issues) and I don't have any 
FLACs since my last RAID corruption. Now that I have my new book 
case, tray table and a place for the server, I have been perfectly 
happy with my sofa and the table in front of it. The laptop I am 
currently using is my most used computer these days. I might use the 
EPIA for playing something from last.fm and I have some notes in my 
Tomboy other than that, I am completely mobile. I even had the energy 
to pair my BT mouse today.

In my real life I have been doing sports and eating better. I have
had a low carb diet for several years now but somehow it has taken me
this far to really know what I am doing and feel better than ever. I
have decided that living better is a perfect excuse to avoid sitting
in front of a computer and writing a stupid blog. I hope my excuse
remains the same if I still don't have the time to write in a long
time. Funny though, I feel like I have to sleep less now that I have
changed some things in my life.