---
isBasedOnUrl: 'content://x-text:8830bf6d-48bf-43ec-a81b-5826daea36ce'
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
name: software-in-2008
layout: post
title: Software in 2008
time: '2009-01-01T17:12:00.000Z'
categories:
  - earlypenguin
author: []
datePublished: '2015-09-03T10:55:52.563Z'
dateModified: '2015-09-03T10:54:41.096Z'
tags:
  - ''
authors: []
publisher:
  name: x-text
  domain: x-text
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2015-09-03-software-in-2008.md
published: true
url: software-in-2008/index.html
_type: Article
_context: 'http://schema.org'

---
# Software in 2008

{% include dogfood/title.md %}

The change in the value printed by `date +%Y` is seen as a
turningpoint and a time for a retrospective analysis and that kind of
things. My year starts in September with the school year or in
November on my birthday which is pretty much the most absolute
reference to my personal mileage and wearing. However I do change my
physical calendar to a revised copy and that's something I do only
once a year. It must mean something. However the price of calendars
is going up due to inflation and empty calendars from previous years
are in fact a deflating currency: their empty pages keep their value
even though some numbers might be wrong. Most old calendars will be
reusable in 6 to 11 years and leap year calendars are reusable in 28
years. I made a [script][0]
to help you in reusing your calendars.

I decided to list software that used during 2008 and which feel like
positive experiences retrospectively. If you have contributed in any
of these, give yourself a pat on the back.

## Everything

1. Linux
2. Ubuntu
3. GRUB
4. GNOME
5. Bash
6. Vim
7. GNOME Terminal
8. OpenSSH
9. Tomboy
10. Firefox
11. Terminator
12. Thunderbird
13. Open Office.org

## Communication

* Enigmail
* Sieve plug-in
* Pidgin
* Ekiga

## Entertainment

* Exaile
* Sonata
* mpd
* VLC
* Gwibber
* gPodder

## Server software

* Apache
* Postfix
* Amavis
* SpamAssassin
* Postfixadmin
* PostgreSQL
* Dovecot
* Shorewall

## Graphics

* Blender
* Gimp
* Inkscape
* XSane
* CUPS

## Misc

* Django
* Python
* bc
* gSTM
* Transmission

## Web applications

* Blogger
* facebook
* Flickr
* Google Calendar
* GooSync
* jaiku
* last.fm

[0]: http://earlypenguin.fi/software/fun/calreuse.sh